Behold! The beloved BCS Hacks 2024 is finally here! BCSSA is pleased to present BCS Hacks 2024. Below are the details:
When: 10:00 am March 23rd to 3:00 pm March 24th.
Where: IBLC 182
Join BCS Hacks for an amazing experience! By participating BCS Hackathon, you get to:
Connect with mentors from various industries, including our sponsor, Axiom Zen.
Practice interview techniques at our mock interview workshop. (spots limited)
Enjoy 3 free meals!
Receive cool BCS swags.
New hackers are welcome! As your home team, we want to give more chances to those who look for their first hackathon experience. We will have reserved seats and a special award for first time hackers!
BCS Hacks 2024 is more than just grinding code. To encourage creativity, we have prepared 3 fun themes to help you generate cool ideas and connect with friends! Teams will be fixed at 4 people per team.

Here are the three themes we propose:

Hacking the past
As BCSers, we come from diverse backgrounds. However, we share one thing in common: we are an expert in our field. Imagine you can begin your last career again with your coding skills. What app would you develop? Maybe it’s an app to manage your tasks, an AI to detect a pathogen, or a game to help you relax… tell us your story with your code!

Self improvement
BCS program is never easy. Coming to BCS means we made a commitment to take on a hard journey and become a better self. Luckly, coding skills are on our side. With technology, we can get better more than just coding. We can be a better communicator, athlete, singer, planner, philanthropist… the list goes on. What would you use technology to improve?

Wild card
Imagination has no limit, so is BCS Hacks 2024! Whether you want to take this chance to implement your own ideas, learn a new framework/API, or develop a new device, wild card is for you! All the projects that don’t fall into the 2 previous categories are eligible in the wild card track.
Prizes will be shared by teams. One (1) winning team will be picked from each track and receive a 160$ gift card (That’s 3 winning teams in total). Beside that, another (1) new Hacker team will be picked to win a gift card of 100$.